Sherlock
========

**Sherlock parses events written in plain English, and returns an object defining a basic event.
[Try demo](http://tabule.github.com/Sherlock/).**

It was designed to allow event creation using natural language. For example, *"The party is tomorrow from 3pm to 5pm."* will return:

```javascript
{
	eventTitle: 'The party',
	startDate: Sat Dec 01 2012 15:00:00 GMT-0600 (CST),
	endDate: Sat Dec 01 2012 17:00:00 GMT-0600 (CST),
	isAllDay: false
}
```

Sherlock can handle times, days, date ranges, event titles, and more. It supports a wide variety of input formats that are common in US English. [Try the demo](http://tabule.github.com/Sherlock/), and [let us know](https://github.com/Tabule/Sherlock/issues) if you find an input that does not work.

# Watson

Sherlock is great for parsing sentences into basic events, but what if you need to manipulate the data for your specific use case or add some extra properties to the returned object? Just tell Watson to help Sherlock out!

Watson provides a preprocessor and postprocessor layer on Sherlock that allows you to customize Sherlock's input and output. With the preprocessor, you can manipulate the input string before it is parsed by Sherlock. The postprocessor allows you to modify the data returned by Sherlock, or add any additional properties.

For example, [Tabule](https://tabuleapp.com) uses Watson's preprocessor to predict which calendar the user wants to add their event to. We use the postprocessor to sanity check the returned values, such as making sure the user-provided end date is after the start date. [View an example watson.js processor](https://github.com/Tabule/Sherlock/blob/gh-pages/watson.js).

# Usage

Include sherlock.js and watson.js in your code.

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="watson.js"></script>
<!-- optional - include if you want Watson to help Sherlock -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="sherlock.js"></script>
```

To parse a string, simple use

```javascript
var sherlocked = Sherlock.parse('Homework 5 due next monday at 3pm');

// Basic properties
var	title = sherlocked.eventTitle;		// 'Homework 5 due'
var	startDate = sherlocked.startDate; 	// Date object pointing to next monday at 3pm
var	endDate = sherlocked.endDate; 		// null in this case, since no duration was given
var	isAllDay = sherlocked.isAllDay;		// false, since a time is included with the event

// Additional custom properties provided by Watson
var validated = sherlocked.validated; // true
```

That's it!

## Methods

There are 2 public methods in Sherlock.js.

**parse(String)**

`parse()` takes a string representing some English phrase, and returns an object with properties `eventTitle`, `startDate`, `endDate`, and `isAllDay`.

`eventTitle` will be a string representing Sherlock's best guess at what the event title should be, or `null` if no title found.
`isAllDay` will always return a boolean signifying whether the input string describes an all-day event.
`startDate` and `endDate` will be Date objects, or `null` if not applicable.

**_setNow(Date)**

`_setNow()` allows you to change what time Sherlock thinks it is right now, regardless of the system clock.

Pass a Date object, and Sherlock will parse strings as if they there were entered at that time. Pass in `null` to clear your custom date and use the system time instead.

This method is primarily meant for debugging purposes.

# Limitations

Sherlock was built for [Tabule](https://tabuleapp.com), meaning it is designed for entering student due dates. With that in mind, Sherlock has the following limitations:

* Specifying years is not supported. (Basic untested support is included in the source code, but commented out. Feel free to experiment.)
* Dates must be in the future.

These two limitations together mean that Sherlock always finds the nearest future date that meets the input. For example, if today is November 25th, 2012 and the user enters 'Oct 27th,' then Sherlock will return October 27, 2013. If the user just enters 'the 15th', then December 15th, 2012 will be returned.

Also, since Sherlock was designed for parsing text entered into a quick add field, it is not bloated with support for things reasonable people would not type out, like "three o'clock." It does however support phrases like "fourth of august" or "in three days." Sherlock does not attempt to be able to parse all of the obscure ways one could convey a date, but it does tackle most of the reasonable ways.

# How does this compare to alternatives like Datejs?

[Datejs](http://www.datejs.com) is a date manipulation library, and is not built for handling user input. That means it can only parse very specific dates or times. If you are progrematically passing values or have a dedicated input field for times and a separate one for dates, then you can use Datejs. If you want to let users enter dates, you need Sherlock.

Oh, and Mr. Holmes could take on a ninja any day.

# License

The MIT License (MIT)
Copyright (c) 2012 Tabule, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.